---
title: "Forecasting tourism demand through search queries and machine learning"
author: "Rendell de Kort*"
date: "March 1, 2017"
output: word_document
---

Centrale Bank van Aruba, Oranjestad, Aruba – r.e.dekort@cbaruba.org



*Abstract*

This paper utilizes different machine learning techniques for tourism demand forecasting. Considering the magnitude of tourism in terms of economic contribution to Small Island Developing States (SIDS), policy making could benefit greatly from accurate tourism demand forecasts. This paper pursues a novel approach of identifying relevant search query features through google correlate and applying machine learning techniques to estimate individual source market series prior to aggregation. The prediction performance of several machine learning methods is assessed when applied to monthly tourist arrivals from individual source countries to Aruba from 1994 to 2016. The results indicate that machine learning techniques in combination with novel internet datasets sets pose great potential for achieving accurate tourism demand forecasts.


KEYWORDS: Forecast combination, machine learning, feature selection, tourism demand forecasting, random forest

JEL CLASSIFICATION: C22, C40, C52, C63

	
Keywords: Forecasting; Machine learning; Tourism demand; Search data.




*1. Introduction*
A key challange in many tourism destinations is the ccurate forecasting of inbound tourism to support destination management descisions.
Even among tourism destinations, Aruba ranks 




*2. Data Summary*
Dependent variable: Tourism demand proxy:tourism receipts, tourism nights. for the two main markets: U.S., venezuela and the remaining source markets: "Other".


Independent variables included onlin web search queries. 

An online automoated method for internet query selection. Given a temporal pattern of interest, Google correlte determines which queries best mimc the data (Mohebbi et al, 2011).
This type of data has several advantages, including emidiate availability of the data, good temporal resolution and low cost to collect the data collection relative to traditional indicators.




* 3. Methodology*
The modeling process is composed of two steps. Variable selection and model building.


Variable selection
We use google correlate to surface search queries whose temporal pattern is most hihgly correlated (R2) with our target pattern.Google correlate employs a novel approximate nearest neighbour (ANN) algorithm over million of candidate queries in an online search trees to produce results.
For these models, query selection was performed on the regional level.

The values of the query time series are applied to machine learning algorithms and a model was fitted to the date of the 3 main source country regions. 

The model was built using monthly training data between XX/XX/XX and XX/XX inclusive, and evaluated by computing the correlation between resulting predictive estimates and the corresponding regional truth data over the holdout period between XX/XX/XX.



*4. Results*



*5. Conclusion*



*6. References*
Mohebbi, M. et al (2011). Google Correlate Whitepaper. Draft date: June 9, 2011.

